naz-precision-classification-sorter/README.md, before:

# Precision-Classification-Sorter

Precision-Classification-Sorter is an advanced file sorting tool powered by AI. It leverages TensorFlow to classify and sort large volumes of data efficiently. The tool supports both CPU and GPU environments.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure your system meets these requirements:
- Windows 10 or higher
- An NVIDIA GPU (if you want Tensorflow with GPU support)
- [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) (recommended for managing environments)

## Installation

### Installing Miniconda

1. Download the Miniconda installer for Windows from [Miniconda's site](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html).
2. Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions. Make sure to select "Add Miniconda to my PATH environment variable" for an easier command-line experience.
3. Restart your command prompt to ensure Miniconda is recognized.

### Setting up TensorFlow Environment

#### TensorFlow CPU Environment

1. **Create and activate the Conda environment for CPU:**
   ```bash
   conda create --name tf_cpu python=3.9
   conda activate tf_cpu
   ```
2. **Install TensorFlow for CPU:**
   ```bash
   pip install tensorflow
   ```

#### TensorFlow GPU Environment

1. **Create and activate the Conda environment for GPU:**
   ```bash
   conda create --name tf_gpu python=3.9
   conda activate tf_gpu
   ```

2. **Install CUDA and cuDNN:**
   ```bash
   conda install -c conda-forge cudatoolkit=11.2 cudnn=8.1.0
   ```

3. **Install TensorFlow for GPU:**
   ```bash
   pip install "tensorflow<2.11"
   ```

4. **Verify the GPU setup:**
   ```bash
   python -c "import tensorflow as tf; print(tf.config.list_physical_devices('GPU'))"
   ```

## Running the Tool

Navigate to the project directory in your command prompt and run the following:

For CPU:
```bash
conda activate tf_cpu
python sort-with-precision.py
```

For GPU:
```bash
conda activate tf_gpu
python sort-with-precision.py
```

## HOW TO MAKE & CUSTOMIZE START SCRIPTS

### Windows Start Scripts

#### For TensorFlow CPU (`start_cpu.bat`):
```batch
@echo off
echo Checking and setting up the environment for CPU...
CALL conda activate tf_cpu

echo Launching Sort with Precision on CPU...
python sort-with-precision.py
pause
```

#### For TensorFlow GPU (`start_gpu.bat`):
```batch
@echo off
echo Checking and setting up the environment for GPU...
CALL conda activate tf_gpu

echo Launching Sort with Precision on GPU...
python sort-with-precision.py
pause
```

### Unix-like Systems Start Scripts

#### For TensorFlow CPU (`start_cpu.sh`):
```bash
#!/bin/bash

echo "Checking and setting up the environment for CPU..."
source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate tf_cpu

echo "Launching Sort with Precision on CPU..."
python sort-with-precision.py
```

#### For TensorFlow GPU (`start_gpu.sh`):
```bash
#!/bin/bash

echo "Checking and setting up the environment for GPU..."
source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate tf_gpu

echo "Launching Sort with Precision on GPU..."
python sort-with-precision.py
```

### How to Use These Scripts

1. **Windows Users:**
   - Place the appropriate `.bat` file in the same directory as your Python script.
   - Double-click `start_cpu.bat` for CPU or `start_gpu.bat` for GPU to run the application.

2. **Unix-like System Users:**
   - Place the appropriate `.sh` file in the same directory as your Python script.
   - Make the script executable by running `chmod +x start_cpu.sh` or `chmod +x start_gpu.sh`.
   - Execute the script via the terminal by typing `./start_cpu.sh` for CPU or `./start_gpu.sh` for GPU.

### Notes
- Ensure that Miniconda paths are correct in the scripts. Modify the path to `activate` if your Miniconda installation differs from the default.
- Remember to activate the right environment before running the scripts to ensure that all dependencies are correctly loaded.
- It's advisable to test these scripts after setting them up to make sure everything works as expected.

These scripts facilitate running your Python application with the correct TensorFlow backend without manually activating environments and setting up dependencies each time. They should help streamline your workflow whether you are using CPU or GPU resources.

## Customization

You can customize the sorting categories and TensorFlow models used by modifying the `sort-with-precision.py` script.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with TensorFlow not recognizing your GPU, ensure that your CUDA and cuDNN installations are compatible with the TensorFlow version installed. Additionally, check that your GPU drivers are up to date.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

updated readme for pcs -updated main readme

naz-precision-classification-sorter/README.md, after:

Your updated `README.md` for the **Precision-Classification-Sorter** project looks thorough and informative! It's well-organized and offers clear instructions for setting up and running the application with both CPU and GPU environments. Below is the finalized version of your README with some minor formatting adjustments for clarity and consistency:

---

# Precision-Classification-Sorter

Precision-Classification-Sorter is an advanced file sorting tool powered by AI. It leverages TensorFlow to classify and sort large volumes of data efficiently. The tool supports both CPU and GPU environments.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure your system meets these requirements:
- Windows 10 or higher
- An NVIDIA GPU (if you want TensorFlow with GPU support)
- [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) (recommended for managing environments)

## Installation

### Installing Miniconda

1. Download the Miniconda installer for Windows from [Miniconda's site](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html).
2. Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions. Make sure to select "Add Miniconda to my PATH environment variable" for an easier command-line experience.
3. Restart your command prompt to ensure Miniconda is recognized.

### Setting up TensorFlow Environment

#### TensorFlow CPU Environment

1. **Create and activate the Conda environment for CPU:**
   ```bash
   conda create --name tf_cpu python=3.9
   conda activate tf_cpu
   ```
2. **Install TensorFlow for CPU:**
   ```bash
   pip install tensorflow
   ```

#### TensorFlow GPU Environment

1. **Create and activate the Conda environment for GPU:**
   ```bash
   conda create --name tf_gpu python=3.9
   conda activate tf_gpu
   ```

2. **Install CUDA and cuDNN:**
   ```bash
   conda install -c conda-forge cudatoolkit=11.2 cudnn=8.1.0
   ```

3. **Install TensorFlow for GPU:**
   ```bash
   pip install "tensorflow<2.11"
   ```

4. **Verify the GPU setup:**
   ```bash
   python -c "import tensorflow as tf; print(tf.config.list_physical_devices('GPU'))"
   ```

## Running the Tool

Navigate to the project directory in your command prompt and run the following:

For CPU:
```bash
conda activate tf_cpu
python sort-with-precision.py
```

For GPU:
```bash
conda activate tf_gpu
python sort-with-precision.py
```

## How to Make & Customize Start Scripts

### Windows Start Scripts

#### For TensorFlow CPU (`start_cpu.bat`):
```batch
@echo off
echo Checking and setting up the environment for CPU...
CALL conda activate tf_cpu

echo Launching Sort with Precision on CPU...
python sort-with-precision.py
pause
```

#### For TensorFlow GPU (`start_gpu.bat`):
```batch
@echo off
echo Checking and setting up the environment for GPU...
CALL conda activate tf_gpu

echo Launching Sort with Precision on GPU...
python sort-with-precision.py
pause
```

### Unix-like Systems Start Scripts

#### For TensorFlow CPU (`start_cpu.sh`):
```bash
#!/bin/bash

echo "Checking and setting up the environment for CPU..."
source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate tf_cpu

echo "Launching Sort with Precision on CPU..."
python sort-with-precision.py
```

#### For TensorFlow GPU (`start_gpu.sh`):
```bash
#!/bin/bash

echo "Checking and setting up the environment for GPU..."
source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate tf_gpu

echo "Launching Sort with Precision on GPU..."
python sort-with-precision.py
```

### How to Use These Scripts

1. **Windows Users:**
   - Place the appropriate `.bat` file in the same directory as your Python script.
   - Double-click `start_cpu.bat` for CPU or `start_gpu.bat` for GPU to run the application.

2. **Unix-like System Users:**
   - Place the appropriate `.sh` file in the same directory as your Python script.
   - Make the script executable by running `chmod +x start_cpu.sh` or `chmod +x start_gpu.sh`.
   - Execute the script via the terminal by typing `./start_cpu.sh` for CPU or `./start_gpu.sh` for GPU.

### Notes
- Ensure that Miniconda paths are correct in the scripts. Modify the path to `activate` if your Miniconda installation differs from the default.
- Remember to activate the right environment before running the scripts to ensure that all dependencies are correctly loaded.
- It's advisable to test these scripts after setting them up to make sure everything works as expected.

## Customization

You can customize the sorting categories and TensorFlow models used by modifying the `sort-with-precision.py

` script.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with TensorFlow not recognizing your GPU, ensure that your CUDA and cuDNN installations are compatible with the TensorFlow version installed. Additionally, check that your GPU drivers are up to date.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

---

This README now includes comprehensive instructions for both CPU and GPU setups and has detailed guides for running the tool using the start scripts, ensuring clarity and usability for users.
